*On 25th of December, 2024. At 12:30.*

If you already know me, you would know that I am not a Christian. There are some thoughts on that topic, but that is not the topic of this "entry". I was a Christian, a Catholic, for the most part of my childhood and teenage years. I was aware that Christmas is the holiday to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ, but we all know the tradition in which the main part of this holiday, especially for children, are gifts.

Every year, everything that gave meaning to Christmas were rather the gifts left under the tree by Saint Nicholas, and sure enough I would be thrilled to open them up ad receive some toys from my family as well. Nowadays, as an agnostic, I do understand how important this holiday is supposed to be. And just as how I'm not bothered by having a day when I receive gifts, I'm also not bothered by just receiving them. I do appreciate them, but a part of me feels out of place when I see all of the decorations and the "special cooking" and think that the reason is something that I don't believe in anymore. So, I'll say it straight: Christmas has lost its meaning to me.

Sure, in many different cultures there is some kind of celebration around the same dates or during December, but now I don't have any particular reason to celebrate. Let's say I'd still do it for the gifts. Do we need a specific day to give anyone a gift or a small present? In any case, knowing that there is a specific date for it, you'd feel pressure to think on what you're going to give out. I think I'd rather receive something from someone because they thought I'd like it, they thought of me, they saw it, they bought it. That is not something that should happen exclusively in Christmas. But if gifts aren't always in Christmas, what IS special about the date, then?

Say Christmas can be used as an excuse to get together with family, friends, loved ones. Having a specific day do get together is great. It is usually hard for my family, specially on my father's side, to be all together because everyone is doing their own thing, as they should, during most of the year. However, it makes it even harder, because everyone has at least two places to be, and we all tend to choose which one to go to on the 24th and go to the other place on the 25th. At least that's how it is done in my family. If my uncles don't agree on all going to my grandfather's place on the same date, then the whole thing of being all together doesn't work. It is easier to just choose an arbitrary day when we know we won't have a lot of plans around that date (like birthdays or stuff like that). Given the difficulty there already is to agree on a date, it would, in the worse case scenario, still be once a year, just like Christmas.

Others may say that is it also a day to be grateful for what we have, remember who is not here anymore, things that would actually be more related to Thanksgiving Day in the US that is, for some reason, celebrated by a lot of people around the world. But again, this is having a specific day for a certain something that can be done in any other day.

... You know? While writing this I realize that there are a few reasons on the participation in these days. The "excuses" to celebrate that I say can be done on any other day, those are the actual reasons on why holidays should exist nowadays. I guess we people are always just too busy with things going on in life, everybody is just doing the best they can on each day and we tend to be somewhat forgetful. We are too into out own things, as those things may demand, that we just forget to call people, think about them, etc. etc. So, I guess it's fine. I guess we can use these days to do all that we tend to not to during the rest of the year.

I do want to say that, if I was to organize something at my house, being all by myself and calling people to come, I would still understand if nobody came. Not that I'd be okay with them actively not wanting to be with me, but, as I said, people have other stuff. I know it is not always possible for plans to go as planned because things can change due to things that can be even out of our control. Just as happens to me, I do think about friends and remember the moments we have had together or imagine what I would like to do with them. Even if I can't go to someone's birthday, holiday meal, important event, I hope they know I still think of them. You, that are reading this, I am thinking of you. Not always will I send some kind of message or call or anything. But this doesn't mean I am not thinking of you. Quite the opposite. Perhaps some people can use or need these days more than others. I don't know, but you do. People be people, right?

However you are spending these days, I hope you spend them happily. Happy days, everyone. Be safe.