*On 25th of December, 2024. At 21:45*

Hi. I want to be ahead of any questions, although this is one I probably should have answered in the introduction to this blog. Why did I choose "People Be People" to name my blog? Mainly, this is just a small something that I like to say every now and then in certain situations. A few of those who know me irl might have heard me say or saw me write in a message "la gente es gente", which I'd translate to "people will be people".

Some years ago (don't ask me how many), I remember coming across this ad about how fathers shouldn't encourage "masculine behavior" on their boys; that they shouldn't justify their actions with "boys will be boys". The way I understood the phrase the first time I heard it was: "Oh, you know. This kind of behavior that they are showing is clearly not part of the set of learnings they've had on culture in this society, no. Rather, the way they act in inherent/intrinsic and the nature of the boys. There is nothing we can do to change them, but we can just accept the consequences of their actions while they are at this age because, well... boys will be boys".

The phrase itself affects society and makes boys think that it is okay to do what they do because boy have *always* been the same way and they *never* will change. But it is not only the belief that they will be the same, but the belief that they will be the same due to the *lack of capacity* to change. Worse yet, this tells all the boys that don't show this kind of behavior that they are weird, that they are not how boys are supposed to be and must change into the standard of what being a boy is.

Sure, to justify that boys can do whatever they want, they use this phrase. Something that I haven't heard yet, but wouldn't surprise, is "girls will be girls". In this context, the use of this phrase would be used also to say that a girl that can't do a certain something that is more related to what "men" or "boys" (can) do because it is not part of the standard of a girl, or that it is not in a girls nature to inherently be able to do this certain something. Similar case, but instead of an excuse for something that is done, it is an excuse for something that just can't be done. This also tells girls that they, by nature, can't do a certain something, while boys, by nature, just do those certain somethings.

By this point, I think it is somewhat worth mentioning that I, Shay, am non-binary (agender, maybe?) and I genuinely and honestly still don't get this gender thing and what exactly are those standards, how they are supposed to be or if there is anything fundamental about them. However, it is clear that limiting children by these means hinders their ability to learn or unlearn, or change how they are and who they are. This can be perfectly applied to adults as well, to "men" and "women", but I won't go any further in this to avoid repeating myself.

I have read on many people on the internet that say that there isn't any true nature about human beings. If this is true, then this must also be true for boys, girls, men, women, and people in general. Also, you might have heard or read a phrase that goes something like "the only thing that is constant in life is change", to say that everything is always changing and nothing really remains the same (please go listen to the Adventure Time song 'Time Adventure').

Combining this into an amalgam of thoughts, one thing that *is* part of human nature is precisely their ability to change. Not only to change, but the starting build is different for everyone. Everybody starts up in different conditions, different schemes, different cultures, different everything. Yet, nearly anyone can change these things about oneself and achieve quite similar results. Everyone is different, but we are also the same.

But... hold on... "boys will be boys" says that boys will never change. Is the blog "People Be People" because people will never change? Well, every single person, individually, can definitely change, but people as a whole? I think not. Let me elaborate. People are all capable of doing incredible things. The mere art of creation is something that amazes me every single time. So much people are so good at what they (love to) do. So many people, strangers, can be incredibly kind and lovely. So many people can have the most weirdest yet brilliant ideas. People can be so full of light. This also means that there can be people that act ethically/morally wrong, more than capable of committing crimes or any kind of harm to anyone. The whole of the characteristics and/or attributes of humans, I assure you, will never change.

Everyone is mostly capable of mostly everything. This is precisely why it is our actions that define us. We can and could do a lot of things, but we choose *what* we (want) to do among all of those possibilities. With this, there will always be people that do certain somethings, no matter what those somethings are (with some exceptions, of course). I truly believe humanity has been like this for a while, and, again, I don't think it will change anytime soon.

People will be people.

People Be People.