On the last day of the year, like every other past year, people do two main things: recap everything that has happened throughout the year and make a list of new year's resolutions. For some people, in some years, which might or might not include myself in 2024, the recap can be something not so easy to do, simply because it was just not the best year so far, despite the saying of "next year should be better than the last". For the resolutions, sometimes they will be more realistic than others. Who am I to judge, though?

Some will say that making a year recap is worth doing because it helps you remember the good things that actually got to happen, rather than the bad things that may or may not help you from seeing the good things. Some will take into account the bad things as well, as a way to "keep the balance", or saying that, regardless of the good things, bad things will still happen, and I want you, reader, to keep this in mind throughout the year: bad stuff happens, and it happens to everyone. Days can't always be good, and for sure they won't always be bad.

Again, for some of us it might be hard to remember the small good moments. Maybe we do remember but don't like to out them as part of the recap because we might think they are not as big as the bad moments, and they don't really help to balance out the scales. I guess thinking about the bad moments is good when some of them happened because of our decisions. Let's do whatever we have under our control to change the outcomes of what is yet to come. Just don't expect to have _everything_ under control.

When talking about the resolutions for the new year, there are three types of people: 1) those who will write stuff that they have been wanting to do, but never really do anything about it, 2) those who will write somewhat generic stuff, and 3) those who don't actually do the new year resolutions thing.

For the first group of people, it is common to have a list of stuff you want to do, but people often write down things that either might be too ambitious or would require a clear path or set of actions to follow, which is something that is not usually very clear on a large scale.
The second group's resolutions are fairly simple. Stuff like "be happier" or "be more grateful"; stuff that would be somewhat clear due to its simplicity but nonetheless ambiguous due to the lack of clear actions to do so. How does one just becomes happier or more grateful towards life on any basis? The end goal is pretty clear, but is not a straightforward process.
The third group is the most interesting. Some might think that they have never really fulfilled or achieved anything on the lists from other years, so they just stopped writing. Some others might not want to have expectations or get too disappointed on themselves, so they don't write anything just in case.

I think there are reasons on having resolutions somewhere, but also on why not having them at all. I'd like to propose something different, based on what a teacher once told me some years ago: have new day's resolutions. I was thinking on what exactly a new year means. I think it doesn't really mean anything to me. I go to sleep one day, wake up the next day and nothing has changed in the slightest. Just read a tweet that says that is a collective and cultural kind of ritual or ceremony (the celebration of a new year), but I still think it is supposed to be more meaningful. Things usually change a day at a time. I think it would be a good practice to have daily resolutions, whether we have a bigger picture or not.

The entirety of our goals and achievements are done by a process that involves steps. So let's do our best to just do things and stay alive day after day. In the long run, sure, the changes might be more noticeable when compared to the same thing's status of a year before, but it all happens little by little. Don't be too hard on yourself. You are allowed to fail, but also to try again. If you don't happen to accomplish what you wanted on one day, remember there is always tomorrow.

Whatever you decide to do, try to keep it simple, little by little, it is okay to not be okay, failing is inevitable, reattempting is a choice, everyone's got their own business, be kind to everyone, and have a nice 2025, or whatever the year is on your calendar.